Create chats-getallmessages-delta.md (#19931)
microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs: api-reference/beta/api/chats-getallmessages-delta.md

---

> title: "chats: getAllMessages/delta"

Reviewer: This is a non-standard structure for method titles. Can you help me understand the reason for having a `/delta` in the function name? Are you documenting the chat: getAllMessages function here? Please update the title accordingly and adjust the file name.

Is this method possibly getting confused with this existing delta method? https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/chatmessage-delta?view=graph-rest-beta&tabs=http

Author: This is an extension of https://github.com/microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs/blob/DiegoCont-export-api-getAllMessages-delta-api/api-reference/beta/api/chats-getallmessages.md we are adding delta functionality to it.

I think functionality is differs enough from the api referenced above to have a separate entry for this delta functionality to be a separate entry but I can add it to the api mentioned above if that's the correct way to do it. If the right way to go is to have a separate entry, what should be the correct way to identify the tittle.

The link mentioned in your comment points to the delta method for channels GET /teams/{team-id}/channels/{channel-id}/messages/delta, I'm adding delta method to chats GET /users/{id | user-principal-name}/chats/getAllMessages

description: "Get incremental changes for messages from all chats that a user is a participant in."
author: "DiegoCont"
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.prod: "microsoft-teams"
doc_type: apiPageType
---

> # chats: getAllMessages/delta

Reviewer: New method topics need to be surfaced in the TOC. Please add a TOC entry for this method under Teamwork and communications/Messaging/Chat.

> # chats: getAllMessages/delta

Reviewer: Please add a changelog entry to call out the addition of the new method. A ChangeList record should have been generated with your schema PR. For details about the changelog, see: https://dev.azure.com/msazure/One/_wiki/wikis/Microsoft%20Graph%20Partners/211742/Changelog

Author: Both my PR and local build generated empty changelog folders. I guess it's because the only schema changes are adding "isComposable" property and "changetracking" annotations to the "allMessages" api.

https://github.com/microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs/blob/DiegoCont-export-api-getAllMessages-delta-api/api-reference/beta/api/chats-getallmessages.md

This is the schema pr:
https://dev.azure.com/msazure/One/_git/AD-AggregatorService-Workloads/commit/f07a8480df973a748f92a5a0560192adee88a382?refName=refs/heads/diegoco/export-api_add-delta-query-support&path=/Workloads/Microsoft.Teams.GraphSvc/override/schema-Fairfax-beta.csdl

[!INCLUDE [beta-disclaimer](../../includes/beta-disclaimer.md)]

Get incremental changes for all messages from all [chats](../resources/chatmessage.md) that a user is a participant in, including one-on-one chats, group chats, and meeting chats.

[!INCLUDE [teams-model-A-and-B-disclaimer](../../includes/teams-model-A-and-B-disclaimer.md)]

## Permissions

The following permissions are required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Permissions](/graph/permissions-reference).

|Permission type      | Permissions (from least to most privileged)              |
|:--------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------|
|Delegated (work or school account)| Not supported |
|Delegated (personal Microsoft account) | Not supported |
|Application | Chat.Read.All, Chat.ReadWrite.All |

> [!NOTE]
> Before calling this API with application permissions, you must request access. For details, see [Protected APIs in Microsoft Teams](/graph/teams-protected-apis).

## HTTP request

<!-- { "blockType": "ignored" } -->
```http
GET /users/{id | user-principal-name}/chats/getAllMessages/delta
```

## Optional query parameters

> You can use `model` query parameter, which supports the values `A` and `B`, based on the preferred [licensing and payment model](/graph/teams-licenses),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the `model` query parameter, which supports the values `A` and `B`, based on the preferred [licensing and payment model](/graph/teams-licenses),
```

Author: Added suggestion in a single commit.

as shown in the following examples.  
If no `model` is specified, [evaluation mode](/graph/teams-licenses#evaluation-mode-default-requirements) will be used.

```http
GET /users/{id | user-principal-name}/chats/getAllMessages/delta?model=A
GET /users/{id | user-principal-name}/chats/getAllMessages/delta?model=B
```

> `$top` parameter is configurable only at the start of the synchronization. If this parameter is included in subsequent requests, new value will be ignored and the original one will be used instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `$top` parameter is configurable only at the beginning of the synchronization. If this parameter is included in subsequent requests, the new value is ignored, and the original is used instead.
```

Author: Added suggestion in a single commit.

```http
GET /users/{id}/chats/getAllMessages/delta?$top=50
 ```

> There is limited support for `$filter` parameter. The only supported $filter expression is `$filter=lastModifiedDateTime+gt+{value}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is limited support for the `$filter` parameter. The only supported $filter expression is `$filter=lastModifiedDateTime+gt+{value}`.
```

Author: Added suggestion in a single commit.

```http
GET /users/{id}/chats/getAllMessages/delta?$top=50&$filter=lastModifiedDateTime gt 2020-06-04T18:03:11.591Z
 ```

>  `$orderby` parameter is not supported. The return order of items is not guaranteed; default ordering is `DESC` but `updated` and `deleted` items take priority over pending items.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `$orderby` parameter is not supported. The return order of items is not guaranteed; default ordering is `DESC` but `updated` and `deleted` items take priority over pending items.
```

Author: Added suggestion in a single commit.
